Compiling Audacity under Windows using Microsoft Visual C++ 6.0

================================================================
This version is currently accurate for Audacity version 1.1, June 2002.
If the advice here is inaccurate or incomplete, please
email audacity-devel@lists.sourceforge.net.
================================================================

Before trying to compile Audacity, please make sure that
your copy of Visual C++ 6.0 has been upgraded to Service
Patch 5.  If you require it, this patch is available from
Microsoft at
http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/downloads/updates/sp/vs6/sp5/default.asp

To simplify the implementation of a near-identical user
interface across platforms, Audacity uses classes and
resources from wxWindows, a portable GUI framework for C++
(and Python).  You must download and build wxWindows before
attempting to compile Audacity, or nothing will work!

wxWindows is available from http://www.wxwindows.org.
Similar to the Linux kernel, wxWindows is available as
stable and development branches.  Audacity is currently
written against wxWindows 2.2.9, which can be downloaded
from http://www.wxwindows.org/dl_msw2.htm#stable

When you have downloaded and installed wxWindows, you must
build it.  First though, to be compatible with Audacity, you
must alter the build settings to use the multithreaded
statically-linked run-time libraries instead of the
multithreaded DLL run-time libraries.  This isn't hard:
launch Visual C++ and open the workspace file called
"wxvc.dsw" in the "wx2\src" directory of your wxWindows
installation.  (Ignore "wxvc_dll.dsw".)  Select
"Project"->"Settings" (Alt+F7), choose "Win32 Release" in
the "Settings For" combo box and select everything visible
in the tree window on the left of the dialog box.  Now
select the "C/C++" tab and change "Use run-time library" 
under the 'Code Generation' combo box to
"Multithreaded".  Now select "Win32 Debug" from the
"Settings For" combo and change the run-time library to
"Debug Multithreaded".  Now you can click "OK" and build
wxWindows by selecting "Build"->"Batch Build" and clicking
"Rebuild All".  This will build both Debug and Release
versions of the wxWindows library.

Now you can compile Audacity.  If you want to checkout a
copy of the latest source code from CVS (assuming you
haven't already!), there are instructions at
http://audacity.sourceforge.net/cvs.php.  Run Visual C++ and
load the Audacity workspace: it's "audacity.dsw" in the
"win" directory of the Audacity source tree.  Before you can
start the build process, you must update the project
settings to tell Visual C++ where to find wxWindows.  There
are three settings that need changing: 

  1. Include Directories.  Bring up the "Project Settings" dialog again.
Select "All Configurations" from the "Settings For" combo
and again select all the top-level entries in the tree.
Choose the "C/C++" tab, select "Preprocessor" from the
"Category" combo and enter the path of your wx2\include
directory in the "Additional Include Directories" box.  (eg
if you installed wxWindows in a directory called "c:\devel"
then enter "c:\devel\wx2\include".)  

  2. Resources.  Select the "Resources" tab and add the same
path as before in the "Additional resource include
directories" box.

  3. Libraries.  Deselect everything in the tree but
"Audacity" and click on the "Link" tab.  Select "Input" from
the "Category" combo and add the path of your wx2\lib
directory to the end of the list of paths in the "Additional
library path" box.  (eg ",c:\devel\wx2\lib" - don't forget
the comma!)  Lastly select "Win32 Release" from the
"Settings For" combo and enter "libcmtd.lib" in the "Ignore
Libraries" box.

Now select the configuration that you wish to build
("Audacity - Win32 Release" for general use, "Audacity -
Win32 Debug" for a slower but debuggable executable) from
the "Build"->"Set Active Configuration" dialog and choose
"Build"->"Rebuild All" to compile Audacity!

That's all - if this procedure doesn't work, you can ask for
help on the Audacity development mailing list:
audacity-devel@lists.sourceforge.net.  The first suggestion
is likely to be "try it again with a clean installation of
the wxWindows source and the latest Audacity source from
CVS" though, so if that's not what you just attempted, you
might want to try that first...
